The following content is provided under
a creative common license. Your support
will help MIT Open Courseware continue
to offer highquality educational
resources for free. To make a donation
or to view additional materials from
hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open
Courseware at
ocw.mit.edu. So, uh, welcome back. So,
we're now moving to a new chapter which
is going to have a little more of a
statistical flavor when it comes to
designing methods, right? Because if you
think about it, okay, some of you have
probably attempted
uh problem number two in the problem set
and you realize that uh maximum
likelihood estimators does not give you
super trivial estimators, right? I mean
when you have an n theta theta then you
know the thing you get is not something
you could have guessed before you
actually attempted to solve that
problem. And so in a way we've seen
already sophisticated methods. However
in many instances the maximum likelihood
estimator was just an average and in a
way even if we had this confirmation for
maximum likelihood that indeed that was
the estimator that maximum likelihood
would spit out and that our intuition
was therefore pretty good. most of the
statistical analysis or use of the
central limit theorems all these things
actually did not come in the building of
the estimator in the design of the
estimator but really in the analysis of
the estimator and you could say well you
know if I know already that the best
estimator is the average I'm just going
to use the average I don't have to
basically quantify how good it is I just
know it's the best I can do when we're
going to talk about tests and uh we're
going to talk about uh uh parametric
hypothesis testing so you should view
this sense as parametric means well it's
about a parameter like we did before and
hypothesis testing is on the same level
as estimation and on the same level as
estimator will be the word test. Okay.
And when we're going to devise a test
we're going to actually need to
understand random fluctuations that
arise from the central limit theorem
better. Okay. It's not just going to be
in the analysis. It's also going to be
in the design. And everything we've been
doing before in understanding the
behavior of an estimator is actually
going to come in and be extremely useful
in the actual design of tests.
Okay. So, uh as an example, I want to
talk to you about some real data. Uh I
will uh I will not study this data, but
this data actually exists. Uh you can
find it on R. And uh so it's the data
from the so-called credit union cherry
blossom run which is a 10 mile race
takes place every year in DC. Seems that
some of the years are pretty nice. 2009
there were about 15,000 participants.
Pretty big race. And the average
learning time was 103 uh.5 minutes. All
right. So uh uh about an hour and a half
or a little bit more. And so you can ask
the following question. Right? This is
actual data. Right? 103.5 actually
average the running time for all of
15,000. Now, this in practice might not
be something very suitable and you might
want to just sample a few runners and
try to understand how they're behaving
every year without having to collect the
entire data set. And so, you could ask
the question, well, let's say my budget
is to ask for maybe 10 runners what the
running time was. Uh, I still want to be
able to determine whether they were
running faster in 2012 than in 2009. Why
do I put 2012 and not 2016? Well,
because the data set for 2012 is also
available. And uh so if you were
interested and you know how to use R uh
just go and have fun with it. So um so
to answer this question, what we do is
we select n runners, right? So n is a
moderate number that's more manageable
than 15,000 from the 2012 race at
random. That's where the random variable
is going to come from, right? That's
where we actually inject randomness in
our problem. And uh we're going to
denote these guys by we're going to
denote so remember this is an
experiment. So really in a way the
runners are the omegas and I'm
interested in measurements on those
guys. So this is how I have a random
variable and this random variable here
is measuring their running time. Okay,
if you look at the data set you have all
sorts of random variables you could
measure about those random runners.
Country of origin, I don't know, height,
age, a bunch of things. Okay, here the
RAM variable of interest being uh uh the
running time. Okay, everybody
understands what the process is? Okay,
so now I'm going to have to make some
modeling assumptions. And here I'm
actually pretty lucky. I actually have
all the data from a past year. I mean,
this is not data from 2012, which I also
have, but I don't use. But I can
actually use past data to try to
understand what distribution do I have,
right? I mean, after all, running time
is going to be rounded to something.
Maybe I can think of it as discrete
random variable. Uh maybe I can think of
it as the exponential random variable.
Those are positive numbers. I can think
I mean there's many kind of running
times that could come up to mind. Many
kind of distributions I could think of
for this modeling part. But uh turns out
that if you actually plot the histogram
of those running times for all 15,000
runners in 29, you actually are pretty
happy to see that it really looks like a
bell-shaped curve. We suggest that this
should be a Gaussian. So what you go uh
on to do is you estimate the mean uh uh
from past observations which was
actually 103.5 as we said you estimate
the variance which was uh 37
373 and uh you just try to superimpose
the curve with this one uh which is a
Gaussian PDF uh with mean one of 3.5 and
variance 373 and you see that they
actually look very much alike and so
here you're pretty comfortable to say
that the running time actually is
Gaussian distribution right so now I
know that the x1 to xn I'm going to say
they're gaussian okay I still need to
specify two parameters so what I want to
know is is the distribution the same
from past years right so I want to know
if the random variable that I'm looking
for if I say pick one say x1 does it
have the same distribution in 2012 that
it did in 20 uh 2009 okay and so the
question is is X1 has a Gaussian
distribution with mean at 103.5 and
variance
373. Is that clear? Okay. So this
question that calls for a yes no answer
is a hypothesis testing problem. I'm
testing a hypothesis and this is the
basis of basically all of datadriven
scientific inquiry. You just ask
questions. You formulate a scientific
hypothesis. Knocking down this gene is
going to cure melanoma.
Is this true? I'm going to collect I'm
going to try I'm going to observe some
patients on which they knock down this
gene. I'm going to collect some
measurements and I'm going to try to
answer this yes no uh uh answer this yes
no question. Okay, it's different from
the question what is the mean of uh the
mean running time for this year. Okay,
so uh u so this hypothesis testing is
testing if this hypothesis is true. The
hypothesis in mathematical terms, I mean
in in in in common English, we just said
was the running time were runners
running faster, right? Anybody could
formulate this hypothesis. Now, you go
to a statistician and he's like, oh,
what you're really asking me is, is X1
normally has a Gaussian distribution
with mean less than 103.5 and variance
373, right? That's really the question
that you ask in statistical terms. And
so if you're asking if this was the same
as before, there's many ways it could
not be the same as before. There's
basically three ways it could not be the
same as before. It could be the case
that X1 is not equal to one uh in
expectation to one of 3.5. So the
expectation has changed or the variance
has changed or the distribution has
changed. I mean, who knows? Maybe
runners are now just you know all
running holding their hands and it's
like now a point mass at one given
point. Okay, so you never know how what
could that have changed. Now of course
if you allow for any change you will
find change and so what you have to do
is to factor in as much knowledge as you
can make as many modeling assumptions so
that you can let the data speak about
your particular question. Here your
particular question is are they running
faster? So you're only really asking a
question about the expectation. you
really want to know if the expectation
has changed. So, as far as you're
concerned, you're happy to make the
assumption that the rest has been
unchanged. Okay? And so, this is the
question we're asking. Is the
expectation now less than 103.5? Because
you specifically asked whether runners
were going faster this year, right? They
tend to go faster uh rather than slower.
All right? Okay. So, this is the
question we're asking in mathematical
terms.
So of course when I did that I need to
basically fix the rest and fixing the
rest is actually part of the modeling
assumptions. So I fix my variance to be
373. Okay I assume that the variance has
not changed between 2009 and
2012. Now this is an assumption. It
turns out it it's wrong. So if you look
at the data from 2012 this is not the
correct assumption but I'm just going to
make it right now for the sake of
argument.
Okay, if uh and also the fact that it's
Gaussian. Now, this is going to be hard
to violate, right? I mean, where does
this bell-shaped curve come from? Well,
it's just natural when you just measure
a bunch of things. The central limit
theorem appears in the small things of
nature. I mean, you know, that's how
that's the bedtime story you get about
the central limit theorem. And that's
why the bell-shaped curve is everywhere
in nature. It's the sum of little
independent things that are going on.
And this Gaussian assumption, even if I
wanted to relax it, there's not much
else I can do. And it is pretty robust
across the
years. All right. So the only thing that
we did not fix is the expectation of X1,
which now I want to know what it is. And
since I don't know what it is, I'm going
to call it mu and it's going to be a
variable of interest. All right? So it's
just a number mu. Whatever this is, I
can try to estimate it maybe using
maximum likelihood estimation probably
using the average because this is
Gaussian and we know that the maximum
likelihood estimator for Gaussian is the
just the average. And uh now we only
want to test if mu is equal to one of
3.5 like it was in uh 2009 or on the
contrary if mu is not equal to one of
3.5 and more specifically if mu is
actually strictly less than one of 3.5.
That's the question you asked. Now why
am I writing mu equal to
103.5 and not and uh or is less than
103.5 rather than equal to one of 3.5
not versus not equal to one of 3.5 is
because since you ask me a more precise
question I'm going to be able to give
you a more precise answer and so if your
question is very specific are they
running faster I'm going to factor that
in the fact what I write if you just ask
me is it the same I'm going to have to
write or is it different than one 3.5
and that's less information about what
you're looking for.
Okay. So by making the modeling all this
modeling assumptions the fact that the
variance isn't changed the fact that
it's still Gaussian I've actually
reduced the number of and I put numbers
in in in in quotes because this is still
an infinite of them but I'm I'm limiting
the number of of ways the hypothesis can
be
violated. the number of ways the number
of possible alternative realities for
this hypothesis. All right, for example,
I'm saying there's no way mu can be
larger than one or 3.5. I've already
factored that in. Okay, it could be, but
I'm actually just going to say that if
it's larger, all I'm going to be able to
tell you is that it's not smaller. I'm
not going to be able to tell you that
it's actually not uh that it's actually
larger.
Okay?
So and the only way it can be rejected
now the only way I can reject my
hypothesis is if X has belongs to a very
specific uh family of distributions. If
it has a distribution which is Gaussian
with mean mu and variance 373 for mu
which is less than one of 3.5. All
right. So we started with
basically was
x1. So that's the reality x1 follows n
uh
103.5
373. Okay. And this is everything
else right. So for example here is X
follows some exponential
uh I don't know point uh point one okay
this is just another distribution here
those are all the possible distributions
what we said is we said okay first of
all let's just keep only those Gaussian
distributions right and second we said
well let's look only at the among those
Gaussian distributions let's only look
at those that have well maybe this one
should be at the boundary say uh
Let's only look at the Gaussians here.
So this guy
here are all the
Gaussians with mean meu and variance
373 for mu less than
103.5. Okay. So when you're going to
give me data, I'm going to be able to
say, well, am I this guy or am I one of
those guys rather than searching through
everything? And the more you search, the
easier for you is to find something that
fits better the data, right? And so if I
allow everything possible, then there's
going to be something that just by pure
randomness is actually going to look
better for the data. Okay? So
um right, so for example, if I draw 10
random variables, right? If n is equal
to 10 then and let's say they take 10
different values then it's actually more
likely that those guys come from a
discrete distribution that takes each of
these values with probability one over
10 than actually some Gaussian random
variable right it would be perfect I can
actually explain it if the 10 numbers I
got were
say 90 let's say I collect three 90 95
and
102 then the most likely distribution
for those guys is the discrete
distribution that takes three values 91
with probability 1/3 95 with probability
1/3 and 102 with probability uh 102 with
probability 1/3 right that's definitely
the most likely distribution for this so
if I allowed this I would say oh no this
is not distributed according to that is
distributed according to this very
specific distribution which is somewhere
in the realm of all possible
distributions Okay. So now we're just
going to try to carve out all this stuff
by making our
assumptions. Okay. So here in this
particular example, just like make a
mental note that what we're doing is
that I actually a little birdie told me
that the reference number is
103.5. Okay, that was the thing I'm
actually looking for. In practice, it's
actually seldom the case that you have
this reference for yourself to think of,
right? Maybe Here I just happened to
have a full data set of all the runners
of 2009. But if I really just asked you,
I said, "Were runners faster uh uh in
2012 than in 2009? Here's $10 to perform
your statistical analysis." What you're
probably going to do is call maybe 10
runners from 2012, maybe 15 runners from
2009, ask them and try to compare their
mean. There's no standard reference. you
would not be able to come up with this
103.5 because this data maybe is
expensive to get or something. Okay, so
this is really more the standard case.
All right, where you really compare two
things with each other, but there's no
like actual ground truth number that
you're comparing it
to. Okay, so we'll come back to that in
a second. I'll tell you what the other
example looks like. So let's just stick
to this example. I tell you it's one of
3.5. Okay, let's try to have our
intuition work the same way. We said,
well, you know, taking averages worked
well. The average should tell me of over
this 10 guys uh should tell me what the
average should be, what the the mean
should be. So, I could just say, well,
Xbar is going to be close to the true
mean by the law of large number. So I'm
going to decide whether xbar uh is less
than one of 3.5 and conclude that in
this case indeed mu is less than one of
3.5 because those two quantities are
close right I could do that the problem
is that this could go pretty wrong
because if n is small then I know that
xn bar is not equal to mu. I know that
XNB bar is close to mu but also know
that there's pretty high chances that
it's not equal to mu. In particular, I
know it's going to be somewhere at one
over root n away from mu, right? One
over root n being the root end coming
from
what? CLT, right? That's the root end
that comes from CLT. CLT tells us I mean
you know in blunt words CLT tells me I'm
at the mean is at distance one over root
n from the expectation pretty much right
that's what it's telling so one over
root n you know if I'm at uh if I'm at
if I have 10 uh people in there one over
root 10 is not a huge number right it's
like oneird pretty much okay so oneird
103.5 if the the true mean was actually
103.4
4 but my average was telling me it's
103.4 +
1/3 I would actually come to two
different conclusions right so we
know that
um so let's say that uh
mu is equal to 103.4
four. Okay, so that's uh you're not
supposed to know this, right? That's the
truth. Hidden
truth. Okay, now I have n is equal to
10. So I know that
xar n minus
103.4 is something of the order of one
over 10, which is of the order of say 1
point uh uh uh.3.
Okay. Okay. So here this is all pen
wavy. Okay. But that's what the central
limit theorem tells
me. What it means is that I can have it
is
possible that
xbar n is actually equal to sorry
103.4 is actually equal to 103.4 4 +
0.3 which is equal to
103.7 which means that while the truth
is that mu is less than
103.5 then I would conclude that mu is
larger than
103.5 okay and that's because I have not
been very
cautious
Okay. So what we want to do is to have a
little buffer to account for the fact
that XN bar is not a precise value for
the true mu something that's one over
root n away from mu. And so what we want
is the better hubistic that says well if
I want to conclude that I'm less than
103.5 maybe I need to have 103 less be
less than 103.5 minus a little buffer
that goes to zero as my sample size goes
to infinity. And actually that's what
the law of large number tells me. But
the central limit theorem actually tells
me that this should be true. Something
that goes to zero as n goes to infinity
at the rate one over root n. Right?
That's basically what the central limit
theorem tells
me. So to make this intuition more uh
precise, we need to understand those
fluctuations. We need to actually put in
something that's more precise than this
like little wiggles here. Okay? we need
to actually have the central limit
theorem come
in. So here's the example of comparing
two
groups. So um pharmaceutical companies
use hypothesis testing to test if a drug
is efficient, right? That's what they
do. They want to know does my new drug
work? And that's what the Federal Drug
Administration office is doing on the
daily basis. They ask for extremely well
uh uh uh um regulated clinical trials on
thousand people and check you know does
this drug make a difference? Did
everybody die? Does it make no
difference? Uh should people pay 200
bucks for a pill of sugar? Right? So
that's what people are actually asking.
So to do so of course there's no ground
truth about so there's actually sorry
there's a placebo effect. So it's not
like actually giving a drug that does
not work is going to have no effect on
patients. It will have a small effect,
but it's very hard to quantify. We know
that it's there, but we don't know what
it is. And so rather than saying, oh,
the ground truth is no improvement, the
ground truth is the placebo effect, and
we need to measure what the placebo
effect is. Right? So, uh, what we're
going to do is we're going to split our
patients into two groups. And there's
going to be what's called the test group
and a control
group. So the word test here is used in
a different way than hypothesis testing.
So we'll just call it typically the drug
group. All right. And so uh I will refer
to mute drug in this for this guy. Okay.
So now this let's say this is a cuff
syrup. Okay.
And when you have a cuff syrup, what you
want to measure, let's say the way you
measure the uh efficacy of a drug syrup
of a of a cuff syrup is to number
measure how many times you cuff per
minute. Okay? And so if I define new
control the number of uh uh expectations
per hour per hour not let's say not per
minute but per hour. So I have just the
expected number, right? This is a number
I don't know because I don't have access
to the entire population of people who
will ever take this uh cuff syrup. And
so I will call it new control for the
control group. So those are the people
who've been actually given just like
sugar like maple syrup. And uh new drug
are those people who are given the
actual syrup. Okay. And you can imagine
that maybe maple syrup will have an
effect on expectations per uh hour just
because well you know it's just sweet
and it helps. Okay. And so we don't know
what this effect is going to be. We just
want to measure if the drug is actually
having just a better impact on
expectations per hour uh than the uh the
the just pure maple syrup.
Okay. So what we want to know is if mu
drug is less than mu control that would
be enough if we had access to all the
populations that will ever take the
syrup for all ages then we would just
measure did this have an impact and even
if it's a slightly ever so small impact
then it's good to release this uh cup
syrup assuming that it has no side
effects or anything like this because
it's just better than maple syrup. Okay,
the problem is that we don't have access
to this and we're going to have to make
this decision based on samples that give
me imprecise knowledge about new drug
and new uh control. So in this case,
unlike the first case where we compared
an unknown expected value to a fixed
number which was 103.5, here we're just
comparing two unknown numbers with each
other. Okay, so there's two sources of
randomness trying to estimate the first
one and trying to estimate the second
one.
Okay. All right. Before I move on, I
just wanted to tell you uh I apologize.
One of the graders was not able to
finish grading his problem sets for
today. So for those of you who are here
uh just to pick up their homework, feel
free to leave now. Even if you have a
name tag, I will pretend I did not read
it. All right. Uh okay. So uh I'm sorry.
We'll you'll get it on Tuesday. Uh and
this will not happen again. All right.
So
um okay. So for the clinical trials now
I'm going to collect information. I'm
going to collect data from the control
group and I'm going to collect data from
the test group. All right. So my control
group here uh I don't have to collect
the same number of people in the control
group than in the drug group. Actually,
for cough syrup, maybe it's not that
important. But you can imagine that if
you think you have the cure to a really
annoying disease, it's actually hard to
tell half of the people you will get a
pill of nothing. Okay, people tend to
want to try the drug. They're desperate.
And so you have to have this sort of
imbalance between who's getting the drug
and who's not getting the drug. Okay, so
it's not and you know, people have to
qualify for the clinical trials. There's
lots of fluctuations that affect what
the final numbers of people who are
actually going to get the drug and are
going to get the control is going to be.
And so it's not easy for you to make
those two numbers equal. You'd like to
have those numbers equal if you can, but
uh not
necessarily. Uh so, and by the way, this
is all part of some uh statistical
science called design of experiments.
And in particular, well, you know, you
can imagine that if one of the series
had higher variance, you would want to
collect more people in this group than
the other group. Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's on purpose. I'll come to
that in a second. All right. So, um,
right.
So
basically, we're going to make it, if
your answer is, is this true? We're
going to make it as hard as possible,
but no harder for you to say yes to this
answer because well, we'll see why.
Okay, so uh um Okay, so now we have two
uh set of datas, the x's and the y's.
The x's are the ones for the drug and
the y's are the data that I collected
from the people who were just given a
placebo. Okay? And so they're all iid
random variables. And here since it's a
number of expectations, I'm making a,
you know, blunt uh uh modeling
assumption. I'm just going to say it's
one and it's characterized only by the
mean mu drug or the mean mu control.
Okay, I've just made an assumption here.
Could be something different, but let's
say it's a distribution. So now what I
want to know is to test whether mu drug
is less than mu control. We said that
already but the way we said it before
was not as mathematical as it is now.
Now we're actually making a test on the
parameters of qual distribution whereas
before we're just making test on like
expected numbers.
Okay. So the huristic again if we try to
apply the huristic now rather than
comparing new xbar drug to some fixed
number I'm actually comparing xar drug
to some control. But now here I need to
have something that accounts for not
only the fluctuations of XAR drug but
also for the fluctuations of XAR
control. Okay. And so now I need
something that goes to zero when all
those two things go to infinity. And
typically it should go to zero with one
over square root of n drug and one over
square root of n control. Okay, that's
what the central limit theorem for both
xar drug and xar control. Two central
limit theorems are actually
telling. Okay. And then we can conclude
that this happens. And as you said this,
we're trying to make it a bit harder to
conclude this because let's face it, if
we were actually using the simple
huristic, right? So let's assume now
that we have for simplicity, right? So
let me assume that I
have so I can rewrite Xar
drug less than XAR
control minus the that goes to zero. I
can write it as XAR drug minus XAR
control less than
uh something negative. Okay, this little
something. Okay, so now let's look at
those guys. This is the difference of
two random variables from the central
limit theorem. They should be
approximately
uh Gaussian each. And they're actually
we're going to think of them as being
independent, right? There's no reason
why the people in the control group
should have any effect on what's
happening to the people in the test
group. Those people probably don't even
know each other. And so when I look at
this, this should look like some me n0
with some mean and some variance that
say I don't know what it is. Okay, the
the mean I actually know it's mu
drug minus mu control. Okay, so if I
were to plot the PDF of this guy, it
would look like this. I would have
something which is centered at m drug
minus mu
control and would look like this.
Okay. Now let's say that mu drug is
actually equal to m control that you
know this pharmaceutical company is a
huge scam and they really are trying to
sell bottled maple syrup uh bottled corn
syrup for $200 a pop. Okay. So this is a
huge scam and the true things are
actually equal to zero. So this thing is
really centered about zero. Okay. Now if
we were not to do this then basically
half of the time I would actually come
up with a distribution that's above this
value and half of the time I would have
something that's below this value which
would mean that half of the scams would
actually go through FDA if I did not do
this. So what I'm trying to do is to say
well okay you have to be here so that
there's actually a very low probability
that just by chance you end up being
here. Okay? And we'll make all the
statements extremely precise later on.
But I think the drug thing makes it
interesting to see why you're making it
hard because you don't want to allow
people to sell things like
that. Okay. So let's just uh before we
go more into the statistical thinking
associated to test, let's just see how
we would do this quantification, right?
I mean after all this is what we
probably are the most comfortable with
at this point. So uh let's just make um
let's just uh try to understand this
thing. And I'm going to make the uh
statistitian's favorite uh uh test which
is the thing that obviously you do at
home all the time every time you get a
new quarter is testing whether it's a
fair coin or not. All right. So this
test of course exists only in textbooks
and uh and I actually did not write this
slide. I was lazy to just replace all
this stuff by uh the I don't know the
cherry blossom run. Uh so you have a
coin now you have 80 observations uh x1
to x80. So n is equal to 80.
I have
x1
xn iid
vernally p and I want to know if I have
a fair coin. So in mathematical language
I want to know if P is equal to 1/2 and
in this case it's kind of hard to say uh
sorry let's say uh this is just the
heads okay and a bias coin well you know
maybe you would potentially be
interested whether it's biased one
direction or the other but you know not
being a fair coin is already somewhat of
a discovery okay and so you just want to
know whether P is equal to 1/2 or P is
not equal to 1/2
Okay. Now, if I were to apply the very
naive first example for to not reject
this hypothesis, if I run this thing 100
times, 80 times, I would need to see
exactly 40 heads and 40 tails. Now, this
is very unlikely to happen exactly.
Okay, you're going to have close to 40
heads and close to 40 tails, but how
close should you those things be? Okay.
And so the little something is going to
be quantified by exactly this. Okay. So
now here, let's say that my experiment
gave
me 54. Did I do uh well, let's say
heads? Yeah, that's 54.
Yeah, heads. Which means that my XN bar
is
54 over 80
which is 68. All
right. All right. So I have this uh this
estimator looks pretty large, right?
It's pretty it's much larger than 0.5.
So it does look like I mean my mom would
certainly conclude that this is a biased
coin for sure because she thinks I'm
tricky. All right. So the question is
can this be due to chance? Right? Can
this be due to chance alone? Like what
is the likelihood that a fair coin would
actually end up being 54 times on heads
rather than
40? Okay. And so what we do is we say
okay I need to understand what is the
distribution of the number of times it
comes on heads and this is going to be
binomial but it's a little annoying to
play with. So we're going to use the
central limit theorem that tells me that
uh xn
bar minus p divided by square root of p1
minus p is approximately distributed as
an n01. And here since n is equal to 80
I'm pretty safe that this is actually
going to
work. Okay. Okay. So now let's just be a
little more um
um and I can actually use Slutzky
here and put XN bar
here. Okay. Slutsky tells me that this
is okay to do. All right. So now I'm
actually going to compute this. So here
I know this this is square root of 80.
This is uh 68. What is this value here?
We'll talk about it. Well, we're trying
to understand what happens if it is a
fair coin, right? So, if
fair, then P is equal to 0.5, right? So,
what I want to know is what is the
likelihood that a fair coin would give
me 68? Let me finish. All right. So, if
what is the likelihood that a fair coin
will allow me to do this? So, I'm
actually allowed to plug in P to be 0.5
here. Now your question is why do I not
plug in P to be
0.5 but you can all right I just want to
make you plug in P at one specific point
but you're absolutely right what you
should you can look at is right so okay
let's forget about your question for one
second so now I'm going to have to look
at XN bar
minus.5 divided by XN bar 1 - XN bar
then this thing is approximately a
Gaussian
and
01 if the coin is
fair otherwise I'm going to have a mean
which is not zero
here right if the coin is something else
whatever I I get here right so if my
coin
if let's just write it for one
second actually let's let's uh let's
answer your question first is going to
be easy. Well, I'm not sure. Okay.
Um, let's do it. So, what is the
distribution of this if P? So, that's P
is equal to 12
uh.5. Okay. Now, if P is equal to
6, then this thing is just well I know
that this is equal to<unk> of N X N bar
minus 0.6
6 / x n bar
uh 1 - x n
bar square root plus well now the
difference so square root of
n 0.6 - 0.5 divided by square root of xn
bar 1 - xn
bar right now if p is equal to 2.6 six
then this guy is n
01 but this guy is something
different right this guy is just a
number that depends on square root of n
it's actually pretty large so if I'm
actually if I want to use the fact that
this guy has a normal distribution I
need to plug in the true value
here
now the implicit question that I got was
the following it says Well, if you know
what P
is, then what's actually true is also
this. If
P is equal to.5, then not since I know
that root N XN bar minus P divided by
square root of P 1 minus P is some N01.
It's also true that square root of n x n
bar minus 0.5 divided by square root of
0.5 one
minus.5 is
n01 right I know what p is I'm just
going to make it
appear okay and so what's actually nice
about this particular uh bernley
experiments is that I can check if my
assumption is validated by checking
whether whether I'm actually so what I'm
going to do right now is now to check
whether this is likely to be a Gaussian
or not right and there's two ways I can
violate it by violating the mean but
also by violating the variance and here
what I did in the first case I said well
I'm not allowing you to check whether
you violated the variance I'm just
plugging whatever variance you're
getting whereas here I'm saying well
there's two ways you can validate it and
uh I'm just going to factor everything
in okay so now I can plug in in this
number so this is square root so this is
80 this is
68 so I can compute all this stuff I can
compute all this stuff here as well and
uh what I get in this case if I put the
x and bar one I get 3.45
45. Okay. And now I claim that this
makes it reasonable to reject the
hypothesis that P is equal
to.5. Can somebody tell me
why? Yeah, three is pretty big. So it's
very unlikely. So right so this number
that I should see should look like the
number I would get if I asked a computer
to draw one random Gaussian for me right
this number when I draw one random
Gaussian is actually a number with
99.9% this number will be betweeng3 and
three with 78% it's going to be
betweengative -2 and two okay so those
are actually between with 70% % is
basically uh 68% is between minus one
and one and with like 90% is between
minus2 and two. So getting a 3.45 when
you do this is extremely unlikely to
happen which means that you would have
to be extremely
unlucky for this to ever happen. Now it
can happen right? It could be the case
that you flip 100 80 coins and 80 of
them are
heads. With what probability does this
happen?
one over two to the 80, right? Which is
probably uh probably better off playing
uh uh the lottery with this kind of
odds, right? I mean, this is just not
going to happen, but it might happen.
So, we
cannot remove completely the
uncertainty, right? It's still possible
that this is due to
noise, but we're just trying to make all
the cases that are very unlikely go
away. Okay? And so now I claim that
3.45 is very unlikely for a Gaussian. So
if I were to draw the PDF of a Gaussian
of a standard Gaussian, right? So N01,
right? So that's PDF of
N01 3.73 is basically
here. Okay. So it's just like too far in
the
tails. Understood?
Now I cannot say that the probability
that the Gaussian is equal to 373 is
small right I just cannot say that
because it's zero and it's also zero for
the probability that it's zero even
though the most likely values are around
zero right it's the continuous random
variable so it's it's going to take any
probability any value you give me it's
going to happen with probability zero so
what we're going to say is well the
fluctuations are larger than this number
the probability that I get anything
worse than this is actually extremely
small, right? Anything worse than this
is just like farther than 3.73 and this
is going to be what we control. All
right, so in this case, I claim that
it's quite reasonable to reject the
hypothesis. Is
everybody okay with this? Everybody find
this shocking or everybody has no idea
what's going on. You have any questions?
Yeah.
feels like number
3.45.4 that makes it seem that less like
Um, that's
correct. Um, and you're right. You
should prefer. So, okay, I didn't want
to plug in the P everywhere, but you
should plug in it everywhere you can.
That's for sure. Okay, so let's agree on
that. And that's true that it makes the
number a little bigger. Did you compute
how much you would get we would get if
we put 0.5 there? Right? I mean it's
probably easy, right? Well, I don't know
what square root of 80 is. Can somebody
compute quickly what uh uh I'm not
asking you to do it, but like what I
want is
uh 2 *<unk>
80 times
uh8
what? 3.22
22. Okay, I can make the same cartoon
picture with 3.22 and uh I would be But
you're right. This is definitely more
accurate and I should have done this. I
didn't want to just get the confused
message. Okay. All right. So,
uh now here's a second example that you
can think of. So, now I have 30 times. I
I toss it 30 times. still in the realm
of uh of the uh um central limit
theorem. I get 13 heads rather than
uh uh 15. So I'm actually much closer to
being exactly at half. So let's see if
this is actually going to give me a
plausible value. And what I get is that
uh uh so I get 33 in average. If the
true was uh 0.5 uh I would get something
like
77 and uh now I claim that 77 is a
plausible realization for some standard
Gaussian. Okay. Now 77 is going to look
like it's
here. So that could very well be
something that just comes because of
randomness. And again, if you think
about it, if I told you you were
expecting 15, you saw 13, you're happy
to put that on the account of
randomness. Now, of course, the question
is going to be where do I draw the line,
right? Is 12 the right number? Is 11 is
10? What is it? And so, we're going to
have what we're going to do. So,
basically, the answer is it's whatever
you want to be. The problem is it's hard
to think on the scale, right? What does
it mean to think on the scale? If I can
think on this scale, I'm going to have
to think on the scale of 80 of them. I'm
going to have to think on the scale of
like running a 100 uh flip coin uh coin
flips. And so this scale is moving. It's
a moving target all the time. Every time
you have a new problem, you have to have
a new scale in mind. And it's very
difficult. The purpose of statistical
analysis and in particular this process
that contain that takes your Xbar and
turns it into something that should be
standard Gaussian allows you to map the
value of Xbar into a scale that is the
standard scale of the Gaussian. All
right. Now all you need to have in mind
is what is a large number or an
unusually large number for a Gaussian.
That's all you need to know, right?
So here by the way 77 is not this one
because it was actually negative.77
uh so the other one should so it's this
one. Okay. So I can be on the right or I
can be on the left uh but they are still
plausible of zero but they are still
plausible. All right.
So understood like you could actually
have in mind all the values that are
plausible for a Gaussian and those that
are not plausible and draw the line
based on what you think is the right
number. So how large should a positive
value of a Gaussian to become
unreasonable for
you? Is it one? Is it 1.5? Is it two?
Stop me when I get there. Is it 2.5? Is
it three?
What?
Yeah. So this is not Beijian statistics.
So there's no such thing as a prior
right now. We'll get there. you'll have
your uh moment uh during one one short
chapter. uh but uh the the right so
there's no prior here right it's really
a matter of what do you think is a
Gaussian large or not it's not a matter
of coins it's not a matter of anything
now I've just reduced it to just one
question so forget about everything we
just said and I'm asking you when do you
decide that a Gaussian is too large to
be a reasonable a number is too large to
be reasonably drawn from a Gaussian and
this number is
two or 1.96 six and that's basically the
number that you get from this quintile.
We've seen the 1.96 before, right? It's
actually Q alpha over two for alpha is
equal to 5%. That's a quentile of a
Gaussian. So actually what we do is we
map it again. So we're not the Gaussian
and then we map it again into some
probabilities which is the probability
of being farther than this thing. And
now probability as we can think
probability is something that quantifies
my error. And the question is how what
percentage of error am I willing to
tolerate? And if I tell you 5% that's
something you can really envision. What
it means is that if I were to do this
test a million times 5% of the time I
would expose myself to making a
mistake. All right? That's all it would
say. If you said well I don't want to
account for uh uh 11 for 5%. Maybe I
want 1%. then you have to move from 1.96
to 2.5 and then if you say I want 0.01%
then you have to move to an even larger
number. So it depends but stating this
number 1% 5% 10% is much easier than
stating the numbers uh 1.96 2.5 etc. So
we're just putting everything back on
the scale. All right. So here is uh to
conclude this again as we said does not
suggest that the coin isn't fair. Now,
it might be that the coin isn't fair. We
just don't have enough evidence to say
that. And that goes back to your
question about why are we siding
with the fact that we're making it
harder to conclude that the the the
runners were faster. And this is the
same thing. We're making it harder to
conclude that the coin is biased because
there is a status quo. And we're trying
to see if we have evidence against the
status quo. The status quo for the
runners is they run they ran the same
speed. The status quo for the coin can
probably all agree is that the coin is
fair. The status quo for a drug I mean
again unless you prove me that you're
actually not a scammer is that you're
actually the status quo is that this is
maple syrup. There's nothing in there.
Why would not you? I mean if I let you
get away with it, you would put maple
syrup. It's just corn syrup is cheaper,
right? Okay. So now let's move on to
math. All right. So uh when I start
doing mathematics, I'm going to have to
talk about random variables and
statistical models. And uh
here there's actually a very simple
thing which is that it actually goes
back to this
picture which is a test is really asking
me if I'm on one side of if my if my um
uh parameter is in some region of the
parameter set or another region of the
parameter set. Right? Yes. No. And so uh
what I'm going to be given is a sample
x1 xn.
I have a
model and again those can be braces
depending on the day. Uh and so now I'm
going to give myself theta
1 and theta 2 sorry theta 0 and theta 1
to disjoint
subset. Okay. So I have my right. So
capital theta here is the space in which
my parameter can live. to make two
disjint subsets. I could just split this
guy in half, right? But I'm actually
going to make myself I'm gonna say,
well, maybe it's this guy and this guy.
Okay, so this is theta 0 and this is
theta
1. What it means when I split those two
guys, I'm actually in test I'm actually
going to focus only on theta 0 or theta
1. And so it means that a priori I've
already removed all the possibilities of
theta being in this region. What does it
mean? This go back to the example of
uh runners. This region here for the for
the cherry blossom run is the set of
parameters where mu was larger than
103.5. Right? We removed that. We didn't
even consider this possibility. We said
either it's
less sorry that's mu equal to 103.5 and
this was mu less than
103.5. Okay. But these guys were
like if it happens it happens. I'm not
making any statement about that case.
All right. So now I take those two
subsets and now I'm going to give them
two different names because they're
going to have an asymmetric role.
H0 is the null hypothesis and H1 is the
alternative
hypothesis. H0 is the status quo.
H1 is what is considered typically as
scientific discovery. So if you're a
regulator, you're going to push towards
H0. If you're a scientist, you're going
to push towards H1. If you're a
pharmaceutical company, you're going to
push towards H1. Okay? And so depending
on whether you want to be conservative,
oh, I can find evidence in a lot of
data. As soon as you give me three data
points, I'm going to be able to find
evidence. That means I'm going to tend
to say, oh, it's H1. But if you say,
"Oh, you need a lot of data before you
can actually move away from the status
quo." That's H0. Okay? So, think of H0
as being status quo. H1 being some
discovery that goes against the status
quo. All right? So, if we believe that
the true data is either in one of those,
what we say is we want to test H0
against H1. Okay? This is actually
wording. So remember because this is how
your questions are going to be
formulated and this is how you want to
probably communicate as a statistician.
So you're going to say I have the null
and I have an alternative. I want to
test H0 against H1. I want to test the
null hypothesis against the alternative
hypothesis.
Okay. Now the two hypothesis I forgot to
say are actually this. H0 is that theta
belongs to theta
0 and H1 is that theta belongs to theta
1. Okay. So here for example theta was
mu and that was mu equal to
103.5 and this was mu less than
103.5. Okay. So typically they're not
going to look like thetas and things
like that. They're going to look like
very simple things where you take your
usual notation for your usual parameter
and you just say in mathematical terms
what relationship they should be
satisfying. Right? For example, in the
drug example that would be mu
drug is equal to mu
control and here that would be mu drug
is less than mu control. Right? the
number of expectations is less than uh
for people who take the drug for the
cough syrup is less than the number of
expectations of people who take the corn
syrup.
Okay. So now what we want to do is so
we've set up our statistical hypothesis
or we set up our hypothesis testing
problem. Sorry, you're a scientist.
You've set up your problem.
Now, what you're going to do is collect
data and what you're going to try to
find on this data is evidence against
H0. And the alternative is going to
guide you into which direction you
should be looking for evidence against
this guy. All right? And so, of course,
the narrower the alternative, the easier
it is for you because you just have to
look in one possible candidate, right?
But typically, you know, H1 is a big
group like less than. Nobody tells you
it's either one 0 point
103.5 or 103. People tell you it's
either 103.5 or less than
103.5. Okay. And so what we want to do
is to decide whether we reject
H0. So we look for evidence against H0
in the data.
Okay. So as I said this guys uh H0 and
H1 do not play a symmetric role. It's
very important to know which one you're
going to place as H0 and which one
you're going to place at H1 because
you're going to always favor in case of
sort of, you know, if it's a close call,
you're always going to side with H0.
Okay? So, you have to be careful about
this. You have to keep that in mind that
if it's a close call, if data does not
have carry a lot of evidence, you're
going to side with H0. And so, you're
actually never saying that H0 is true.
You're just saying I did not find
evidence against H0. So you don't say I
accepted H0. You say I failed to reject
H0. Okay. And so one of the thing is uh
that you want to keep in mind when
you're doing this is this innocent until
uh proven guilty. So uh if you come from
a country like America, uh there's such
a thing. And uh in particular, lack of
evidence does not mean that you are not
guilty. Right? OJ Simpson was found not
guilty. it was not found innocent. Okay.
And so this is basically what happens is
like you know the prosecutor brings
their evidence and then you know the
jury has to decide whether they were
convinced that this person was a uh uh
uh I don't know was uh uh guilty of
anything. And the question is do you
have enough evidence? But if you don't
have evidence, it's not the burden of
the defender to prove that they're
innocent. Nobody's proving they're
innocent, right? Sometimes it helps, but
you just have to make sure that there's
not enough evidence against you. Okay?
And that's basically what it's doing.
You're H0 until proven
H1. So, how are we going to do this?
Well, as I
said, the role of estimators in
hypothesis testing is played by
something called tests. And a test is a
statistic. Can somebody remind me what a
statistic
is?
Yeah. Yeah, that's actually just uh one
step more. So it's a it's a function of
the observations and we require it to be
measurable. And as a rule of thumb,
measurable means if I give you data, you
can actually compute it. Okay? If you
don't see a soup or an in, you don't
have to think about it, right? And so
um and so Oh, uh yeah. And so what we do
is we just have this test but now I'm
actually asking only from this guy this
test a yes no answer which I can code as
zero or one right so as a rule of thumb
you say that well the test is equal to
zero then h0 the test is equal to one
then h1 and as we said is that if the
test is equal to zero it doesn't mean
that h0 is true it means that I fail to
reject h0 and if the test is equal to
one I reject
h0 okay so I have two possibilities case
I look at my data I turn it into a yes
no answer and the yes no answer is
really H0 or H1 okay which one is the
most likely
basically all right so in the coin flip
example our test
statistic well our test statistic is
actually something that takes value
01 and anything any function that takes
value 01 is an indicator function okay
so So an indicator function is just a
function. So there's many ways you can
write it but
uh I'm going so it's a one with a double
bar. If you aren't comfortable with
this, you're totally it's totally okay
to write I of something like I of
A. Okay. And that's what so a here is a
statement like an inequality, an
equality, some you know mathematical
statement. Okay. Or not mathematical I
mean a can be you know my grandma is 20
years old. Okay. And so this is
basically one if a is
true and zero if a is
false.
Okay, that's the way you want to think
about
it.
So just this function takes only two
values and that's it. And it
basically it's just so right. So here
here is the example that we had. We
looked at
whether the standardized XN bar, the one
that actually is approximately n01 was
larger than something in absolute value,
either very large or very small but
negative. Okay, so we wanted to know if
I'm going back to this picture, we
wanted to know if this guy was either to
the left of this of something or to the
right of something, right? Was it in
this
regions?
Now this thing here uh this
indicator I can view this as a function
of xar. What it does it really splits
the possible values of x bar which is
just a real number right in in two
groups. The groups on which they lead to
a value which is one and the groups on
which they lead to a value which is
zero. Right? So what it does is that I
can actually think of it as the real
line xbar and there's basically some
values
here where the val I'm going to get a
one maybe I'm going to get a zero here
maybe I'm going to get a one a zero
maybe I'm going to get a one I'm just
splitting all possible values of xbar
and I see whether they spit out the pi
which is zero or which is one now in
this case it's not clear right I mean
the function is very nonlinear it's x XR
minus.5 / XR 1 - X bar. If we put the P
in the denominator, that would be clear.
That would just be exactly something
that looks like this. If
XAR
what the function would be like this it
would be one if it's smaller than some
value less than zero if it's uh in
between two values and then one again.
Right? So that's
S. Okay? So it starts at uh so this is
one right this is one and this is zero.
So if xar is too small or if x bar is
too large then I'm getting a value one
uh but if it's uh somewhere in between
I'm getting a value zero. Now if I have
this weird function it's not clear how
this happens. Okay, I have a I mean
right so the picture here that I get is
that I
have a weird nonlinear function right so
that's xar that's square root of n xar
n.5 /<unk> of xar n 1 - xar n right
that's this function a priori I have no
idea what this function looks
like I mean okay I can can probably
analyze this function but let's pretend
and we don't know. So it's like some
crazy stuff like this. And all I'm
asking is whether in absolute
value it's either it's larger than C.
Which means that is this function larger
than C or less than minus C. So the
values on which I'm going to say one
this the in the intervals on which I'm
going to say one are this
guy this
guy and this
guy okay and everybody else everywhere
else I'm saying zero everybody agrees
with this is what I'm
doing now of course it's probably easier
for you to just package it into this
nice thing that's just either larger
than C and absolute value of less than
C. You don't want to have to plot this
function. In practice, you don't have
to. Now, this is where I'm actually
claiming. So, here I actually define to
you a test and I promised starting this
lecture by saying, "Oh, now we're going
to do something better than computing
averages." Now, I'm telling you, we'll
just compute an average. And the thing
is the test is not just the
specification of this Xbar. It's also
the specification of this constant C.
All right? And the constant C was
exactly where our you know belief about
what a large value for a Gaussian is.
That's exactly where it came in. So this
choice of C is basically a threshold at
which we decide above this threshold
this is unlikely to come from a
Gaussian. Below this threshold we decide
that it's likely to come from a
Gaussian. So we have to choose what this
threshold is based on what we think
likely means.
All
right. So,
uh, uh, uh, just a little bit more of
those, uh, of those things. So, now
we're going to have to characterize what
makes a good test, right? Because think
of, um, well, I'll come back to it in a
second, but, uh, you know, you could
have a test that says reject all the
time, and that's going to be a bad test,
right? The FDA is not implementing a
test that says yes, all drugs work.
Let's just go to Aruba. Okay? So like
people are trying to have something that
try to works all the time. Now FDA is
not either saying let's just say that no
drugs work and let's go to Aruba. All
right. They just try to say the right
thing as often as possible. And so we're
going to have to measure this. So the
things that are associated to a test are
the rejection region. And if you look at
this X in EN such that P of X is equal
to one. This is exactly this guy that I
drew.
the values of the sample. So here I
summarize the values of the sample into
their average. But the values of the
sample that I collect that we will lead
to a test that says
one. All right. So this is the rejection
region. If I collect a data point
technically I have right. So I have e to
the n which is a a big
space like
this. Right? So that's e to the n. Think
of it as being the space of xn bars. And
I have a function that takes only value
zero or one. So I can decompose it into
this part where it takes value zero and
the part where it takes value one. And
those can be super complicated, right?
Can have things like this. I can have
some weird little islands uh where it
takes value one. I can have some islands
where it takes value zero. I can have
some weird stuff going on. But I can
always partition into the value where it
takes value zero and the value where it
takes value one. and the value where it
takes one if this is if S is equal to
one this is called the rejection region
of S.
Okay, so that's just this the samples
that would lead me to
rejecting and notice
that this is the indicator of the
rejection region, right? The test is the
indicator of the rejection region.
So there's two ways you can make an
error when there's a
test. Either the truth is in H0 and
you're saying actually it's H1 or the
truth is in H1 and you say it's H0. And
that's how we build in the asymmetry
between H0 and H1 is that we control
only one of the two errors and we hope
for the best for the second one. So the
type one error is the one that says
well if it is actually the status quo
but I claim that there's a discovery if
it's actually H0 but I claim that I'm in
H1 that I commit a type one error. Okay.
And so the probability of type one error
is this function alpha of S which is
just the probability of saying that S is
equal to one when theta is in H0. Now
the problem is that this is not just a
number because theta is just like moving
all over h0 right there's many values
that theta can
be right so theta is somewhere
here oh I erased it okay
so right so for simplicity we're going
to think of theta as being
mu and 103 3.5. Okay. And so I know that
this is theta
1 and this was just this point here was
theta
0. Okay, agreed? This is what the cherry
blossom
run. Now here in this case it's actually
easy. my function. I need to compute
this function
alphab which is maps uh theta in theta 0
to p theta of s= 1. So that's the
probability that I reject when theta is
in h0. Then there's only one of them to
compute because theta can only take this
one value. So this is really
103.5. Okay. So that's the probability
that reject when the true mean was
103.5. Now if I was testing whether If
h0 was this entire guy here, all the
values larger than 103.5, then I would
have to compute this val this function
for all possible values of data in
there. And guess what? The worst case is
when it's going to be here because it's
so close to the alternative that it's
that's where I'm making the most error
possible.
And then uh there's the type two error
which is defined basically in the you
know symmetrical way is the function
that maps theta to the probability. So
that's the probability of type two error
is the probability that I fail to reject
H0 right size is equal to zero. I fail
to reject H0 but that's for theta that
actually came from H1.
Okay, so in this example, let's clear if
I'm
here, like if the true mean was 100, I'm
looking at the probability that it's the
true mean is actually 100 and I'm
actually saying it was
103.5 or it's not less than 3.5. Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, it's just it means it's a function
that maps theta 0 to R.
You've seen functions, right? Okay. So
that's just the way you write. So you
typically write something like so that
means that's a function f that goes from
say r to
r and that maps
x to
x^2. Okay. So here I'm just saying I
don't have to consider all possible
values. I'm only considering the values
on theta 0. the value that it takes. I
put r actually I could restrict myself
to the interval 01 because those are
probabilities. So it's just telling me
where my function comes from and where
my function goes
to. And uh beta is a function, right? So
beta s of theta is just the probability
that theta is s theta that theta is
equal to one. And I could define that
for all thetas. Sorry that is equal to
zero in this case. And I could define
that for all thetas, but the only ones
that lead to an error are the thetas
that are in H1. Otherwise, I mean, I can
define this function. It's just not
going to correspond to an
error.
Okay. And the power of a
test is the smallest. So the power is
basically one minus an error. One minus
the probability of an error. So it's the
probability of making a correct
decision. Okay? So it's the probability
of making a correct decision under H1.
That's what the power is. But again,
this could be a
function, right? Because there's many
ways I can be in H1 if H1 is an entire
set of of numbers. For example, all the
numbers that are less than 103.5. And so
what I'm doing here when I define the
power of a test, I'm looking at the
smallest possible of those
values. Okay? So I'm looking at this
function one minus. Okay? So I maybe I
should actually expand a little more on
[Applause]
this. Okay.
So
beta pi of theta is the probability
under theta that s is equal to zero.
Right? That's the probability for theta
in H1 in sorry in theta 1 which means
under the alternative that they fail to
reject and I really should because theta
was actually in theta 1. Okay. So this
thing here is the probability of type
two error. Now this is one minus the
probability that I did reject and I
should have
rejected. Right? is just the law of the
complement because if s is not equal to
zero then it's equal to one. So now if I
rearrange this it tells me that the
probability that s is equal to 1 this is
actually 1 minus beta s of
theta.
Okay, so that's true for all thetas in
theta 1. And what I'm saying is well, so
this is now a good thing, right? This
number being large is a good thing. It
means I should have rejected and I
rejected. I want this to happen with
large probability. And so what I'm going
to look at is the most conservative
choice of this number, right? rather
than being super optimistic and say oh
but indeed if theta was actually equal
to zero then I'm always going to
conclude that uh I mean if mu is equal
to zero everybody runs in zero seconds
then I should definitely uh with high
probability I'm actually g I'm going to
make no mistake but really I should look
at the worst possible case okay and so
what I'm looking at is basically the
smallest
value it can take
on theta
1 is
called
power of s power of test s. Okay, that's
the smallest possible value it can
take. All right, so I'm sorry this is a
lot of definitions that you have to sink
in and it's not super pleasant, but
that's what testing is. There's a lot of
jargon. Those are actually fairly simple
things. Just maybe you should like get a
sheet for yourself and say these are the
new terms that I learned. What is there
to test rejection region probability of
type one error probability of type two
error and power. Just make sure you know
what those guys Oh, and uh null and
alternative hypothesis. Okay. And once
you know all these things, you know what
I'm talking about. You know what I'm
referring to. And this is just jargon,
but in the end, those are just
probabilities. I mean those are natural
quantities just for some reason people
have been used to using different
terminology. So uh just to illustrate
what type when do I make a type one
error and when do I not make a type one
error uh so I make a type one error if
h0 is true and I reject H0. Right? So
the off diagonal blocks are when I make
an error when the when I'm on the
diagonal terms H1 is true and I reject
H0. That's a correct decision. When H0
is true and I fail to reject H0, that's
also the correct decision to make. So I
only make decision errors when I'm in
one of the green blocks, sorry, in the
red blocks and one block is the privile
is the type one error and one other
block is the type two error. That's all
it means. Okay. So you just have to know
which one we called one. I mean we could
have this of course was pretty
um pretty uh I mean this was chosen in a
pretty uh uh ad hoc way. So to conclude
this lecture, let me ask you a few
questions. In a in a US court, the
defendant is uh found either uh say
let's let's just say for the sake of
discussion innocent or guilty, right?
It's really guilty or not guilty, but
let's say innocent or
guilty. When does the jury make a pro a
type one
error? Yeah.
and he's
guilty and he's innocent, right? The
status quo, everybody's innocent until
proven guilty. So that's our H0 is that
the person is innocent. And so that
means that H0 is innocent. And so we're
looking at the probability of type one
error. So that's when we reject the fact
that it's innocent. So we conclude that
this person is guilty. Okay? So type one
error is when this person is innocent
and we conclude is guilty. What is the
type two error?
letting a guilty person go three, which
actually according to Constitution is
the the better of the two. All right.
So, what we're going to try to do is to
control the first one and hope for the
best for the second one. How could the
jury make sure that they make no type
one error
ever? All always let the guy go free,
right?
What is the effect on the type two
error?
Yeah, it's the worst possible, right? I
mean, basically for every guy that's
guilty, you let them go. That's the
worst you could do. Okay. And same
thing, right? How can the jury make sure
that there's no type two
error? Always convict. What is the
effect on the American budget? What is
the effect on the type one
error? Right? So the effect is that uh
basically the type one error is
maximized. So there's this trade-off
between type one and type two error
that's inherent and that's why we have
this sort of multiobjective thing. We're
trying to minimize two things at the
same time and I could find many ad hoc
ways right so if you've taken any
optimization trying to optimize two
things when one is going up while the
other one is going down the only thing
you can do is make ad hoc heristuristics
maybe you try to minimize the sum of
those two guys maybe you try to minimize
one/ird of the first guy the first guy
plus twothird of the second guy maybe
you try to minimize the first guy plus
the square of the second guy you can
think of many ways but none of them is
more justified than the other however
For statistical hypothesis testing,
there's one that's very well justified,
which is just constrain your type one
error to be the smallest to be at a
level that you find you deem acceptable.
5%. I want to let go of at most 5%,
sorry, I want to convict at most 5% of
innocent people. That's what I deem
reasonable. And based on that, I'm going
to try to convict as many people as I
can. All
right. So that's the called the name and
Pearson paradigm and we'll talk about it
uh next time. All right. Thank you.